All right welcome back my dear student.
So if you are enjoying the course or you have enjoyed the course so far you're going to enjoy this course
a lot more now because I'm going to show you how to add another feature to this mess that is going to
take your skills to another level.
What it is instant results from the database.
All right.
So while we are going to be doing today is something is simply this we have these users online functionality
right here but it's not instant.
So that means that I have to refresh my page to have this change to another number when somebody comes
visit my site and I see a mess.
That's not very good.
Right.
So I mean if somebody comes to our site we want to see this number change right in front of our eyes
but it's not changing unless we refresh the page.
All right.
So this notion I do that I want to show you too that you can add it to your post to your comments uses
whatever you want to happen instantly on your Web site.
I'm telling you right now this is going to help you.
Now we are going to be using Ageod's but I'm not going to explain it.
Why.
Because I have another course on that and on that cause I can show you everything you need to know about
outs and see how powerful it is.
So you can look that up.
All right.
Choose me.
So let's get to work.
So is there are a couple of things that we are going to be doing.
First of all I'm going to explain it right now.
We've got to we're going to be mortifying our users online function that's located in functions at BHB.
Right.
So this function we created the function real quick.
Let me just give you a recap of what is doing.
This is me.
We're setting some variables here.
Right now we are inserting to the database to the table in the database.
So we are setting a session for that person.
We are using the time to calculate if the person has been on our Web site more than 30 seconds or less
in 30 seconds.
That's what we're doing.
All right.
So we are inserting that.
All right if that person is new and you are not new we are updating it.
All right.
And we are just updating to our new session there.
So every time we see somebody that's been there for a while and they just refresh We keep updating it
and then here what we're doing basically selecting whoever is less longer than the time variable that
we got.
So if they're on the Web site if their time is bigger than this all right then we know that they are
not active.
So we only given them 30 seconds to do something on the site.
So that's what this function is doing.
If you remember.
So now we are actually echoing the results from that function right here.
That's what you see up here.
That's the number you see there.
Right.
And that's it.
All right so basically what we're going to be doing is sending requests via agents and getting information
instant from the database.
So that way we don't have to refresh because BHB you have to refresh so.
So the first thing that we are going to be doing is writing our javascript and we're going to be using
Jake werie as a framework to do that.
And we have been using that already.
So right below writing scripts in admin J.S. and scripts dodgiest we're going to start writing.
Right.
All the way below this document dump ready.
All right.
The first function here would be we're going to create a function in javascript and B could be called
anything you want.
I'm going to call it low users on line you know.
Right.
And this is where we're going to be sending in Ajax requests.
We're going to use Jake where we get it right in here.
The first parameter and I wanted to explain I told you just because I already have another course.
But basically this is going to send out requests.
I get requests to do two functions at BHB but we don't want to just send it to functions at BHB because
we have a lot of functions there right.
So we need to actually create some type of functionality that we detect.
So we're going to send a parameter so we're going to put a question mark here and I'm going to say something
like.
Right.
Maybe on line users equals result.
So this is going to be a read get requests and then the second parameter will be a function that we
want to execute when we get that response back from the server.
And this put a variable here to bring up for for us.
All right.
And once we get that we're sort of somewhere right so let's say for example we create a container.
Well let's actually do it right now real quick.
Let's go to our navigation right here.
I'm going to come in this hour just in case you want to use as I say said yes you do that you might
want to use the old functionality for some reason.
I don't know why but
I'm going to leave it there.
All right.
So here I'm going to take this BHB out of there because we don't need that anymore.
I'm going to create a span tag with a class of something they're just going to say users on line.
There you go.
That's going to be the container where we put all the information in there.
All right let's go back to scripts and here we're going to target that container.
Let's make sure that we have the same exact class.
So let's go to scripts that uses on line.
And we're going to use another function here.
Quartet's and we're getting that data in that container.
All right.
Beautiful.
Now we need to.
All right.
We need to call this function right after we create it right here like this.
We'll come back to this a little later.
But right now actually you know what I'm going to cut this video short because it's getting too big
rides getting too too large.
But anyway in the next lecture we'll continue working with this and I'll show you how it's done.
All right.
Perfect.
Thank you so much.
And I see you in the next lecture